README.md, before:

# Capital Weather Overview

Capital Weather is a sample Bluemix application which utilizes the [Weather Channel][weather_api_url] service, two mapping APIs, [Leaflet][leaflet_url] and [Esri Leaflet][esri_leaflet_url], and the [Google Maps Geocoding API][geocoding_api_url]. It allows users to visualize the current weather in all the world capitals, as well as obtain historical weather data and future weather projections. The app provides a real world use case of the Weather Channel API and implements several of the methods exposed by that interface.

## Running the app on Bluemix
[![Deploy to Bluemix](https://bluemix.net/deploy/button.png)](https://bluemix.net/deploy)

1. Create a Bluemix Account

    [Sign up for Bluemix][bluemix_signup_url] or use an existing account.

2. Download and install the [Cloud Foundry CLI][cloud_foundry_url] tool

3. Clone the app to your local environment from your terminal using the following command:

  ```
  git clone https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/capital-weather.git
  ```

4. `cd` into this newly created directory

5. Open the `manifest.yml` file and change the `host` value to something unique.

  The host you choose will determinate the subdomain of your application's URL:  `<host>.mybluemix.net`

6. Connect to Bluemix in the command line tool and follow the prompts to log in.

  ```
  $ cf api https://api.ng.bluemix.net
  $ cf login
  ```

**The following steps need to be updated once service is made public!!!**

7. Create the Weather Channel service in Bluemix.

  ```
  $ cf create-service weather_channel standard capital-weather-service
  ```

8. Push it to Bluemix.

  ```
  $ cf push
  ```

And voila! You now have your very own instance of Capital Weather running on Bluemix.

## Run the app locally
1. Create a Bluemix Account. You will need this to create a Weather Channel service and grab the credentials later on.

    [Sign up][bluemix_signup_url] in Bluemix, or use an existing account.

2. If you have not already, [download node.js][download_node_url] and install it on your local machine.

3. Clone the app to your local environment from your terminal using the following command:

  ```
  git clone https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/capital-weather.git
  ```

4. `cd` into this newly created directory

5. Install the required npm and bower packages using the following command

  ```
  npm install
  ```

6. Create a Weather Channel service using your Bluemix account and replace the corresponding credentials in your `vcap-local.json` file.

7. Start your app locally with the following command.

  ```
  npm run watch
  ```

This command will trigger [`cake`][cake_url] to build and start your application. When your app has started, your console will print that your `server started on: http://localhost:6003`.

Since we are using `cake`, the app is rebuilt continuously as changes are made to the local file system. Therefore, you do not have to constantly stop and restart your app as you develop locally. Run `npm run cake` to see the other commands available in the `Cakefile`.

## Decomposition Instructions
The primary purpose of this demo is to provide a sample implementation of the Weather Channel API. The relevant code for this integration is located within the `lib/weatherService.js` file and has been extracted into several [source gists][gist_url]. This section details the callback functions created to call this API.

### Current Conditions

A callback function for getting the current weather conditions for the input latitude/longitude value. Utilizes the `current` method of the Weather Channel API.

### Past Conditions

A callback function for getting the weather conditions on a prior date for the input latitude/longitude value. This function leverages the `getOneHC` helper method. Utilizes the `historical` method of the Weather Channel API.

### Historical Conditions

A callback function for getting weather conditions for the past ten years on the current date for the input latitude/longitude value. This function makes several calls to the `getOneHC` helper method. Utilizes the `current` method of the Weather Channel API.

## Contribute
We are more than happy to accept external contributions to this project, be it in the form of issues and pull requests. If you find a bug, please report it via the [Issues section][issues_url] or even better, fork the project and submit a pull request with your fix! Pull requests will be evaulated on an individual basis based on value add to the sample application.

## Troubleshooting

The primary source of debugging information for your Bluemix app is the logs. To see them, run the following command using the Cloud Foundry CLI:

  ```
  $ cf logs capital-weather --recent
  ```
For more detailed information on troubleshooting your application, see the [Troubleshooting section](https://www.ng.bluemix.net/docs/troubleshoot/tr.html) in the Bluemix documentation.

## Privacy Notice
The capital-weather sample web application includes code to track deployments to Bluemix and other Cloud Foundry platforms. The following information is sent to a [Deployment Tracker](https://github.com/cloudant-labs/deployment-tracker) service on each deployment:

* Application Name (application_name)
* Space ID (space_id)
* Application Version (application_version)
* Application URIs (application_uris)

This data is collected from the VCAP_APPLICATION environment variable in IBM Bluemix and other Cloud Foundry platforms. This data is used by IBM to track metrics around deployments of sample applications to IBM Bluemix. Only deployments of sample applications that include code to ping the Deployment Tracker service will be tracked.

### Disabling Deployment Tracking

Deployment tracking can be disabled by removing `require("cf-deployment-tracker-client").track();` from the beginning of the `lib/server.js` file.

[weather_api_url]: http://www.wunderground.com/weather/api/
[leaflet_url]: http://leafletjs.com/
[esri_leaflet_url]: http://esri.github.io/esri-leaflet/
[bluemix_signup_url]: https://ibm.biz/capital-weather-signup
[cloud_foundry_url]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli
[download_node_url]: https://nodejs.org/download/
[cake_url]: http://coffeescript.org/#cake
[gist_url]: https://gist.github.com/JakePeyser/5c50c5d06106d54eb058
[issues_url]: https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/capital-weather/issues
[geocoding_api_url]: https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/geocoding/intro

Commit message:

Changed loading gif to 3rdculturekid weather gif

README.md, after:

# Capital Weather Overview

Capital Weather is a sample Bluemix application which utilizes the [Weather Channel][weather_api_url] service, two mapping APIs, [Leaflet][leaflet_url] and [Esri Leaflet][esri_leaflet_url], and the [Google Maps Geocoding API][geocoding_api_url]. It allows users to visualize the current weather in all the world capitals, as well as obtain historical weather data and future weather projections. The app provides a real world use case of the Weather Channel API and implements several of the methods exposed by that interface.

## Running the app on Bluemix
[![Deploy to Bluemix](https://bluemix.net/deploy/button.png)](https://bluemix.net/deploy)

1. Create a Bluemix Account

    [Sign up for Bluemix][bluemix_signup_url] or use an existing account.

2. Download and install the [Cloud Foundry CLI][cloud_foundry_url] tool

3. Clone the app to your local environment from your terminal using the following command:

  ```
  git clone https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/capital-weather.git
  ```

4. `cd` into this newly created directory

5. Open the `manifest.yml` file and change the `host` value to something unique.

  The host you choose will determinate the subdomain of your application's URL:  `<host>.mybluemix.net`

6. Connect to Bluemix in the command line tool and follow the prompts to log in.

  ```
  $ cf api https://api.ng.bluemix.net
  $ cf login
  ```

**The following steps need to be updated once service is made public!!!**

7. Create the Weather Channel service in Bluemix.

  ```
  $ cf create-service weather_channel standard capital-weather-service
  ```

8. Push it to Bluemix.

  ```
  $ cf push
  ```

And voila! You now have your very own instance of Capital Weather running on Bluemix.

## Run the app locally
1. Create a Bluemix Account. You will need this to create a Weather Channel service and grab the credentials later on.

    [Sign up][bluemix_signup_url] in Bluemix, or use an existing account.

2. If you have not already, [download node.js][download_node_url] and install it on your local machine.

3. Clone the app to your local environment from your terminal using the following command:

  ```
  git clone https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/capital-weather.git
  ```

4. `cd` into this newly created directory

5. Install the required npm and bower packages using the following command

  ```
  npm install
  ```

6. Create a Weather Channel service using your Bluemix account and replace the corresponding credentials in your `vcap-local.json` file.

7. Start your app locally with the following command.

  ```
  npm run watch
  ```

This command will trigger [`cake`][cake_url] to build and start your application. When your app has started, your console will print that your `server started on: http://localhost:6003`.

Since we are using `cake`, the app is rebuilt continuously as changes are made to the local file system. Therefore, you do not have to constantly stop and restart your app as you develop locally. Run `npm run cake` to see the other commands available in the `Cakefile`.

## Decomposition Instructions
The primary purpose of this demo is to provide a sample implementation of the Weather Channel API. The relevant code for this integration is located within the `lib/weatherService.js` file and has been extracted into several [source gists][gist_url]. This section details the callback functions created to call this API.

### Current Conditions

A callback function for getting the current weather conditions for the input latitude/longitude value. Utilizes the `current` method of the Weather Channel API.

### Past Conditions

A callback function for getting the weather conditions on a prior date for the input latitude/longitude value. This function leverages the `getOneHC` helper method. Utilizes the `historical` method of the Weather Channel API.

### Historical Conditions

A callback function for getting weather conditions for the past ten years on the current date for the input latitude/longitude value. This function makes several calls to the `getOneHC` helper method. Utilizes the `current` method of the Weather Channel API.

## Contribute
We are more than happy to accept external contributions to this project, be it in the form of issues and pull requests. If you find a bug, please report it via the [Issues section][issues_url] or even better, fork the project and submit a pull request with your fix! Pull requests will be evaulated on an individual basis based on value add to the sample application.

Credit to [3rdculturekid][3rdculturekid_url] for the beautiful weather loading gif.

## Troubleshooting

The primary source of debugging information for your Bluemix app is the logs. To see them, run the following command using the Cloud Foundry CLI:

  ```
  $ cf logs capital-weather --recent
  ```
For more detailed information on troubleshooting your application, see the [Troubleshooting section](https://www.ng.bluemix.net/docs/troubleshoot/tr.html) in the Bluemix documentation.

## Privacy Notice
The capital-weather sample web application includes code to track deployments to Bluemix and other Cloud Foundry platforms. The following information is sent to a [Deployment Tracker](https://github.com/cloudant-labs/deployment-tracker) service on each deployment:

* Application Name (application_name)
* Space ID (space_id)
* Application Version (application_version)
* Application URIs (application_uris)

This data is collected from the VCAP_APPLICATION environment variable in IBM Bluemix and other Cloud Foundry platforms. This data is used by IBM to track metrics around deployments of sample applications to IBM Bluemix. Only deployments of sample applications that include code to ping the Deployment Tracker service will be tracked.

### Disabling Deployment Tracking

Deployment tracking can be disabled by removing `require("cf-deployment-tracker-client").track();` from the beginning of the `lib/server.js` file.

[weather_api_url]: http://www.wunderground.com/weather/api/
[leaflet_url]: http://leafletjs.com/
[esri_leaflet_url]: http://esri.github.io/esri-leaflet/
[bluemix_signup_url]: https://ibm.biz/capital-weather-signup
[cloud_foundry_url]: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli
[download_node_url]: https://nodejs.org/download/
[cake_url]: http://coffeescript.org/#cake
[gist_url]: https://gist.github.com/JakePeyser/5c50c5d06106d54eb058
[issues_url]: https://github.com/IBM-Bluemix/capital-weather/issues
[geocoding_api_url]: https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/geocoding/intro
[3rdculturekid_url]: http://thethirdculturekid.com/
